# Unit 2: Periodic Trend

1. Which of the following is a representative metal in the 3rd period?

- [ ] Sc
- [ ] Ga
- [x] Al
- [ ] Cl

2. Which one of the following ions will have three electrons in a d-subshell as a +3 ion?

- [x] Cr3+
- [ ] Fe3+
- [ ] Nb3+
- [ ] Sc3+

3. Are Zn2+ and Ni isoelectronic? Why or why not? (Choose the best answer.)

- [ ] No, because they do not have the same number or electrons..
- [ ] Yes, because they have the same number of electrons.
- [ ] Yes, because they have the same number of electrons and the same electron configuration.
- [x] No, because while they have the same number of electrons, they do not have the same electron configuration.

4. Which one of the following pairs lists the species with the smaller radius first?

- [ ] C and O
- [x] S2– and Cl–
- [ ] P and P3–
- [ ] Ca and Ca2+

Incorrect.

5. As a general trend, first ionization energies ________________ from left to right across the periodic table. Consider the nonmetals in the second period. Which element will have a lower than expected first ionization energy?

- [ ] decrease; N
- [ ] increase; N
- [ ] decrease; O
- [x] increase; O

6. Electron affinity is the energy change as an electron is ____________________ an atom in its gas state. The elements with the highest electron affinities are the ______________.

- [ ] removed from; alkali metals
- [ ] removed from; halogens
- [ ] added to; alkali metals
- [x] added to; halogens

7. What two common cation charges would be expected for Sn?

- [ ] +1 and +4
- [ ] +1 and +2
- [ ] +1 and +3
- [x] +2 and +4

8. The reactivity of metals __________ down a group because ______________.

- [ ] decreases; the ionization energy increases down the group.
- [x] increases; the energy to remove an electron decreases down the group.
- [ ] increases; the electron affinity increases down the group.
- [ ] decreases; the energy change to add an electron decreases down the group.
