# Thing 1

1. The first three categories introduced in this segment (metals, polymers,
and ceramics) are based on the three types of primary bonding: metallic, ________, and ionic, respectively.

- [ ] secondary
- [x] covalent
- [ ] van der Waals

This direct correlation between primary bonding and
engineering materials categories covers three of the six types of materials
covered in this course.

2. Glasses are considered a category separate from ceramics because their
chemistry is different, even though their atomic structure is the same.

- [ ] True
- [x] False


3. Fiberglass is a good example of a ___________ combining the strength and stiffness of reinforcing glass fibers with the ductility of the polymeric matrix.

- [ ] ceramic
- [x] composite
- [ ] semiconductor 



















Fiberglass is a classic example of a composite that combines the “best
of both worlds” of its two components.





4. 

















Semiconductors are considered a category separate from
metals because their electrical conductivity is different.





- [x] True
- [ ] False

While semiconductors
such as silicon will exhibit different primary bonding (covalent rather than
metallic), it is the electrical conductivity of silicon that fundamentally sets
it apart from metals. (Silicon’s conductivity is intermediate between that of
conductive metals and insulating polymers and ceramics.)

5. The relationship between atomic bonding and the elastic modulus or stiffness of a metal is an example of how structure (atomic-level in this case) leads to _____________.

- [ ] breakage
- [x] properties
- [ ] permanent deformation

Structure does lead to properties (a mechanical
property in this case).
