# Thing 2

1. Aluminum metal is an example of a ______________.

- [ ] body-centered cubic crystal structure
- [x] face-centered cubic crystal structure
- [ ] simple cubic crystal structure

The fcc structure is shared by many important metals,
including aluminum.

2. The vacancy and the interstitial are two common types of point defects in metallic crystal structures.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

We emphasize these in this segment, especially the
vacancy.

3. The Arrhenius relationship shows that the rate of chemical reactions increases _______________ temperature.

- [ ] linearly with
- [ ] with the fourth power of
- [x] exponentially with



This important relationship will be found in many materials science
applications beyond its role in chemical reaction rates.



4. The Arrhenius plot is a linear set of data points in which the logarithm of rate is plotted against the ____________.

- [ ] absolute temperature in K
- [ ] temperature in °C
- [x] inverse
temperature in K-1

This plot is very useful for visualizing numerous
temperature-dependent processes in materials science and engineering.

5. The activation energy, Q, for a chemical
reaction is indicated by the _______________ of the Arrhenius plot.

- [ ] intercept at 1/T = 1
- [x] slope
- [ ] intercept at 1/T = 0


The slope is specifically the magnitude of the activation energy divided
by the gas constant, R.


6. The gas constant, R, is equal to _______________ times the Boltzmann’s constant, k.  

- [ ] 1024
- [ ] 10-24
- [x] Avogadro's number

Avogadro’s number is a “bridge” between the atomistic
level form of the Arrhenius relationship and the macroscopic version.

7. The gas constant, R, is an appropriate
term for equations describing gas phases and ________________ processes.

- [x] solid-state
- [ ] no other
- [ ] all other

While “gas constant” refers to the role of R in the
ideal gas law, this constant applies to a wide variety of material states –
gases, liquids, and solids.

8. The energy needed to produce a single
vacancy, Ev, is the same as the activation energy, Q.

- [ ] True
- [x] False


9. Solid-state diffusion occurs in the face
centered cubic structure of aluminum by individual aluminum atoms hopping into
_______________ sites.

- [x] adjacent vacant
- [ ] adjacent occupied
- [ ] adjacent interstitial 

This hopping mechanism allows diffusion to occur in a
direction opposite to the vacancy motion.

10. As an indication of how “close packed” the aluminum (FCC) crystal structure is,  ________ of the volume of the unit cell is occupied by the aluminum atoms.

- [x] 74%
- [ ] 68%
- [ ] 70%

This is the maximum packing efficiency for space
filling by equal sized spheres.

11. The diffusion coefficient is defined by  _______________.

- [x] Fick’s first law
- [ ] Fick’s second law
- [ ] Fick’s third law



















This transport equation applies to both vacancy and interstitial motion
in a wide variety of diffusion systems.





12. The diffusivity (D) of copper in a brass alloy is 10-20 m2/s
at 400 °C. The activation energy for copper diffusion in this system is 195
kJ/mol. The diffusivity at 600 °C is _____________.

- [x] 2.93 x 10-17 m2/s
- [ ] 5.86 x 10-17 m2/s
- [ ] 2.93 x 10-16 m2/s

This is a good example of the predictive power of the
Arrhenius relationship.
