# Thing 4

1. The first of the “big four” mechanical
properties obtained in the tensile test is ___________________.

- [ ] yield strength
- [ ] tensile strength
- [x] elastic modulus

The initial deformation in the tensile test is elastic
in nature.

2. The tensile strength is ___________ the
yield strength for typical metal alloys.

- [ ] less than
- [x] greater than
- [ ] about the same as

The tensile strength
is by definition the maximum stress value measured over the range of the
tensile test.

3. The ductility corresponds to the ______________.

- [ ] total amount of elastic deformation
- [x] strain at failure
- [ ] strength at failure

The ductility corresponds to the extent of overall
deformation exhibited by the material at failure.

4.  The Elastic Modulus is given by ______________.

- [ ] Poisson’s ratio
- [x] Hooke’s Law
- [ ] Ohm’s Law


5. The yield strength corresponds to ______________.

- [ ] an offset of 0.1%
- [x] an offset of 0.2%
- [ ] the point of tangency where plastic deformation first begins

This small offset allows a practical definition of the
onset of plastic deformation. 

6. The stress versus strain curve shows that a metal alloy becomes weaker beyond the tensile strength.

- [ ] True
- [x] False

The drop off in
stress beyond the tensile strength is a result of the fact that the cross
sectional area of the sample is becoming smaller (necking down). The apparent
drop is due to the fact that engineering stress is defined relative to the
initial cross sectional area, not the instantaneous true area.

7. The elastic “snap back” that occurs at failure is parallel to ______________.

- [ ] the strain axis
- [ ] the stress axis
- [x] the elastic deformation portion of the stress-strain curve.

The elastic snap back is simply the reverse of the
elastic stretching that occurred at the beginning of the tensile test.

8. The Toughness or work-to-fracture is the total area under the stress versus strain curve.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

Although not cataloged as extensively as the “big
four” parameters, the toughness is an important concept in understanding the
overall mechanical behavior of materials.
