# Thing 5

1. “Creep” deformation describes the
behavior of materials being used at high temperatures under high pressures over
_____________ time periods.

- [ ] short
- [x] long
- [ ] intermediate

This formal definition begins our introduction to this
important form of high temperature deformation of engineering materials.

2. We added comments about polymers because their weak, secondary bonding between long chain molecules causes them to exhibit creep deformation at relatively low temperatures.

- [x] True
- [ ] False


This secondary bonding can even allow creep to be exhibited by some
polymers at room temperature.

3. In the simplest sense, the creep test is
essentially a tensile test done at a high temperature under ____________ load.

- [x] a fixed
- [ ] no
- [ ] a variable

The moving crosshead in the tensile test is replaced
by a fixed load. 

4. A linear portion of the strain versus time plot corresponds to the ______________ stage of the overall creep curve.

- [ ] primary
- [x] secondary
- [ ] tertiary

This steady strain rate follows the initially more
rapid strain rate observed in the primary stage.

5. The strain rate in the ______________ stage of the creep test is analyzed using the Arrhenius equation, analogous to our previous discussion of the diffusion coefficient.

- [x] primary  
- [ ] secondary  
- [ ] tertiary  


6. A powerful use of the Arrhenius relationship is to measure creep data at low temperatures and then extrapolate the data to high temperatures, allowing us to predict the performance there.

- [ ] True
- [x] False

Just the opposite –
we measure creep at high temperatures over conveniently short time frames to
predict how the material will behave at lower temperatures over long operating
times.

7. In a laboratory creep experiment at
1,000 °C, a steady-state creep rate of 5 x 10-1 % per hour is
obtained for a metal alloy. The activation for creep in this system is known to
be 200 kJ/mol. We can then predict that the creep rate at a service temperature
of 600 °C will be ______________.  (We can assume the stress on the sample in
the laboratory experiment is the same as at the service temperature.)

- [ ] 4.34 x 10-5 % per hour
- [ ] 80.5 x 106 % per hour
- [x] 8.68 x 10-5 %
per hour

This is another good example of the predictive power
of the Arrhenius relationship.

8. For high temperature creep deformation in ceramic materials, a common mechanism is ______________.

- [ ] dislocation climb
- [ ] viscous flow (molecules sliding past one another)
- [x] grain boundary sliding

The greater difficulty for dislocation motion in
ceramics (compared to metals) makes grain boundary sliding more likely than
dislocation climb.
