# Thing 7

1. We focus on “critical flaws” that ______________.

- [x] lead to catastrophic failure
- [ ] are larger than 1 mm in size
- [ ] are larger than 1 μm in size

While critical flaws can be of various sizes from the
micrometer scale to more than a millimeter, we specifically want to understand
when they lead to catastrophic failure.

2. We use the example of __________________
to illustrate concern about a famous “critical flaw.”

- [ ] Liberty Ships
- [ ] the Hindenburg
- [x] the Liberty Bell

The Liberty Bell,
with its famous crack, was a concern when it was moved in order to be more
visible to tourists during the American Bicentennial celebration in
Philadelphia in 1976.

3. The design plot is composed of two intersecting segments: yield strength corresponding to general yielding and fracture toughness corresponding to ______________.

- [ ] fracture following multiple stress applications
- [ ] high-temperature fracture
- [x] flaw-induced fracture

This intersection defines the change in fundamental
failure mode for the material – from slow to fast.

4. The design plot shows stress as a function of time.

- [ ] True
- [x] False

The design plot shows
stress as a function of flaw size, a.

5. The ______________ flaw size is defined
within the design plot at the intersection between the general yielding segment
and the flaw-induced fracture segment.

- [x] critical
- [ ] minimum
- [ ] maximum

This intersection defines the critical flaw size for
our system.

6. The I in the subscript of the
fracture toughness, KIc , refers to ______________    .

- [x] mode I (uniaxial tensile) loading
- [ ] the primary stage of creep deformation
- [ ] “i” for incremental loading

We define the fracture toughness relative to a
uniaxial tensile test.

7. The stress versus strain curve for a sample with a critical pre-existing
flaw looks like ______________.

- [x] that of a brittle ceramic
- [ ] a regular stress versus strain curve but with a lower value of Y.S.
- [ ] a regular stress versus strain curve but with a higher value of Y.S.

The sample breaks suddenly without any plastic
deformation.

8. The benefit of failure by general yielding is that ______________.

- [ ] the failure occurs quickly
- [ ] the structure does not deform permanently
- [x] the plastic deformation serves as an early warning

While plastic deformation is not ideal, it is better
than sudden, catastrophic fracture.

9. “Flaw-induced fracture” is also known as “catastrophic fast fracture.”

- [x] True
- [ ] False



















Whatever the term, the result is a very bad
outcome!




