# Thing 8

1. The fatigue strength that is associated with catastrophic failure after
a large number of stress cycles is ______________ the yield strength.

- [ ] greater than
- [x] less than
- [ ] about the same value as

This catastrophic failure at relatively low stress is
a major concern for design engineers.

2. A metal alloy known to have good
ductility is used in the manufacture of a spring in a garage door assembly. The
spring breaks catastrophically in its first use, under a load known to
correspond to about 2/3 of the alloy’s yield strength. This is a good example
of fatigue failure.

- [ ] True
- [x] False

There was likely a
pre-existing flaw that produced the catastrophic failure (recall the discussion
of fracture toughness). Fatigue failure would have corresponded to a similar
failure but only after a large number of stress applications (garage door
openings).

3. The fatigue curve is a plot of breaking stress versus ______________.

- [x] the number of stress cycles
- [ ] temperature
- [ ] time

In fact, the plot is generally on a log scale, as the
number of cycles to failure is often in the millions.

4. 

















The “fatigue strength” is defined as the point where
the fatigue curve reaches a value of roughly _____________ of the tensile
strength.





- [ ] 10%
- [x] one-fourth to one-half
- [ ] 75%

The fatigue strength
is defined by where the fatigue curve levels off after a large number of stress
cycles. (We then see in the Summary of Lesson 8 that the fatigue strength tends
to fall in the range of one-fourth to one-half the tensile strength.)

5. Fatigue is the result of a critical flaw built up ______________.

- [ ] instantly
- [x] after a large number of stress cycles
- [ ] prior to being put into service

Individual plastic
deformation steps eventually build up into significant (and critical!) sized
flaws.

6. The relationship of fatigue to the
design plot (introduced in our discussion of fracture toughness) is that we
grow the size of a flaw at a relatively low stress until the flaw size reaches
the “flaw-induced fracture” segment of the design plot.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

Once again we see
that individual plastic deformation steps eventually build up into significant
(and critical!) sized flaws.
