# Thing 9

1. We begin by focusing on making things
slowly. Phase diagrams are maps that help us track microstructural development
during the slow cooling of an alloy. The Sn-Bi phase diagram is an example of a
______________ diagram.

- [ ] temperature versus time
- [ ] eutectoid
- [x] eutectic

Eutectic means “easily melted” corresponding to this
phase diagram that exhibits a minimum in the liquid phase portion of the
diagram.

2. The phases in a two-phase
region of the phase diagram are determined by the adjacent, single phases on
either side of that two-phase region.

- [x] True
- [ ] False

We saw this fact demonstrated as we developed the
empirical map (phase diagram) for the Sn-Bi system.

3. In the important Fe – Fe3C
(iron carbide) phase diagram, steel making is described by slow cooling through
the ______________ reaction.

- [ ] melting
- [x]   eutectoid  
- [ ]   eutectic  

Eutectoid means “eutectic-like” and is at the heart of
the important iron-iron carbide phase diagram.

4. The “pasty” quality of lead solders in the lead-tin system can be
attributed to ______________.

- [ ] the fact that lead has a higher melting point than tin
- [x] the nature of the two-phase liquid + α solid solution region
- [ ] the nature of the two-phase α solid solution + β solid solution
region

The combination of solid and liquid phases gives the
pasty quality.

5. Heat treatment can be
defined as the time-independent process of producing a desired microstructure.

- [ ] True
- [x] False

Rather than being
time-independent, heat treatment is, in fact, described by the temperature versus time history
necessary to produce a desired microstructure.

6. Previously (in Thing 2), we saw that diffusion increases as temperature
increases. Instability ______________ as temperature decreases.

- [ ] stays about the same
- [x]   increases  
- [ ] decreases

The farther we go below the equilibrium transformation
temperature, the more unstable the system becomes.

7. Because of the competition between instability and diffusion, the most rapid
transformation will occur _______________.

- [x] below the transformation temperature
- [ ]  above the transformation temperature
- [ ]  at the transformation temperature


8. 


The “knee-shaped” curve of the TTT diagram for
eutectoid steel is a good example of the competition between instability and ______________.





- [x] diffusion
- [ ] radioactivity
- [ ] stability

In this case, the instability/diffusion balance is
related to the conversion of gamma phase solid solution to alpha phase +
cementite (iron carbide). 

9. As we monitor the TTT diagram for
eutectoid steel through the diffusional transformation region, we see that the
decreasing magnitude of diffusivity with decreasing temperature leads to
______________.

- [ ] generally unchanged grain sizes 
- [x] increasingly finer microstructures
- [ ] increasingly more coarse microstructures

The decreasing diffusivity with decreasing
temperatures leads to the size of new phases (such as alpha iron and cementite)
to be confined to shorter distances, hence a finer microstructure.

10. As we continue to go to lower temperatures in the TTT diagram for
eutectoid steel, the diffusionless transformation to form martensite is the
result of ______________.

- [ ] freezing temperatures 
- [ ]  increasingly rapid atomic mobility
- [x] the domination of instability

The instability is so great as we approach 200 °C that
the new crystallographic form, martensite, begins to form, and the fraction of
martensite increases as we cool further.
