# Thing 10

1. The discovery of the electron in 1897 was followed by the invention of
the transistor in _________.

- [ ] 1957
- [ ] 1937
- [x] 1947

The tremendous progress in science and engineering in
the first half of the twentieth century was demonstrated by the fact that the
transistor, the launch of solid-state electronics technology, was invented only
fifty years after the discovery of the electron itself.

2. Since the development of the integrated circuit in 1971, Moore’s Law has
correctly predicted that the number of transistors on a semiconductor “chip”
should double about every ____ years.

- [x] two
- [ ] five
- [ ] four


Gordon Moore’s remarkably precise prediction has held up for the four
decades since the development of the first IC in 1971.


3. Electronic conduction in a semiconductor is the result of the promotion
of an electron from the conduction band up to the valence band.

- [ ] True 
- [x] False

Just the opposite;
electrons are promoted from the valence band to the conduction band across an
energy band gap.

4. The “2” that appears in the exponent of the Arrhenius equation for an
intrinsic semiconductor is ______________.

- [x] derived from the fact that each electron promotion produces two carriers – an electron and an electron hole (in the valence band)
- [ ] derived from the ideal gas law
- [ ] a typographical error

The number 2 corresponds to the fact that two carriers
are contributing to the electrical conductivity.

5. An extrinsic semiconductor is one
with a small amount of purposefully added impurity or “dopant.”

- [x] True
- [ ] False

The doping of a semiconductor provides a way to
enhance the conductivity of the material.

6. The slope of the Arrhenius plot for an
extrinsic semiconductor is ______________ that for the corresponding pure or
undoped material.

- [ ] greater than
- [x] less than
- [ ] about the same


Please see the course video Lecture 10.3 – The
Extrinsic Semiconductor. 

7. Combining the extrinsic behavior with the intrinsic on the Arrhenius
plot produces ______________.

- [ ] a doubling of the conductivity
- [x] a stable level of conductivity over a range of temperatures
- [ ] no effect, given the different nature of conductivity in the two
cases

In our example of heating an n-type semiconductor, the
“exhaustion” of the conductivity provided by the n-type dopant is followed by a
plateau until the intrinsic semiconduction again causes the overall
conductivity to rise. 
