# Corporations in Culture

1. A cultural boundary refers to similarities in culture, such as socially acquired preconceived routines for a specific situation, between two individuals or groups or between an individual and a group.




2. Cultural boundaries must be large to significantly affect team performance.




3. The boundary possessed by business enterprises that restricts someone who is not an employee or invited visitor from crossing is an example of a social boundary.



4. Karen noticed a different pattern operative in her boyfriend’s family and was eager to copy that pattern, thus proving that culture necessarily moves between people.



5. Which of the following is true of smiling as a part of culture?



6. Cultural boundaries are also part of the internal operation of a corporation and can cause problems when they are not recognized for what they are and dealt with accordingly.



7. Which of the following is true?



8. Stereotyping, or assuming that some general, or even specific but highly distinctive trait found in a group or team applies equally to everyone in the group, should be avoided. 



9. To better adapt to the teams you join and to assimilate to new cultural routines, Molinksy suggests we pay attention to formality, indirectness, connection and expressing feelings.



10. Gestures, which can have powerful emotional effects, are very important for defining cultural boundaries because they act as a marker for who is ‘in’ and who is ‘out’.


