# Module 2 - What Is Animal Welfare and Why Does It Matter?

1. The Utilitarian view is an approach that some people use to decide whether it is acceptable to use an animal in a given situation. This view is often used when designing legislation that involves animals. Which of the following statements best describes the Utilitarian view?

- [ ] The idea that we should allow animals to remain as close to their natural state as possible – we should therefore not engage in any selective breeding or interference. 
- [ ] The opinion that we should decide whether it is acceptable to use an animal based on our relationship with that animal, and its potential effect on other humans.  
- [x] An ethical approach that involves the use of cost-benefit analysis; balancing the amount of suffering the action will cause (cost) with the benefit that the majority will receive; an action will be ethically justified if the benefits outweigh the costs. 
- [ ] A view that animals have moral rights – this means that animals have a value separate of their impact on humans and there are some situations where it is never acceptable to use animals. 
- [ ] An approach that means we are ethically obliged to protect something if we have made an agreement to protect it – we may have indirect obligations towards animals because they matter to other humans. 

Correct

2. Consider this imaginary scenario: A donkey is being used to drag an extremely heavy cart. The cart contains all of the food that a village is likely to receive that season. The donkey is suffering throughout the trip and is unlikely to survive. If the food does not reach the village, the people will not survive. Which of the following choices would reflect a Utilitarian view of this scenario?

- [x] The use of the donkey is acceptable: the cost of the animal suffering is outweighed by the advantage of feeding a village.
- [ ] The use of the donkey is not acceptable: we have a moral responsibility to protect animals in our care and the donkey should not be allowed to suffer. An alternative should be found. 
- [ ] The use of the donkey is acceptable:  an agreement has been made between the person bringing the food and the people waiting for the food: the ethical obligation is to the village not the animal. 

Correct

3. Animal welfare science uses an objective approach to allow us to make decisions based on evidence about what the animal needs, rather than our emotional response to a situation.

- [x] True
- [ ] False


4. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed.  For each answer option, decide if it is true or false.  The human population consumes a huge amount of animal products, with 60 billion land animals raised for meat each year. Intensive farming methods are often employed to meet this demand. Mark the statements you believe describe potential animal welfare problems associated with intensive farming methods. 

- [x] There are not enough stock people to look after huge numbers of animals, which means some animals may suffer and not be noticed. 

Yes, this is a potential animal welfare problem with intensive farming. 
- [x] Farmed animals would naturally live in stable social groups.  Living in large groups chosen by stockpersons means problems such as aggression, bullying and serious injuries between animals can occur. 

Yes, this is a potential animal welfare problem with intensive farming. 
- [x] Animals are often kept in environments where they cannot exhibit natural behaviour, which can have an effect on both their physical and mental well-being.

Yes, this is a potential animal welfare problem with intensive farming. 
- [ ] Animals have too much space and are allowed to roam free. 
- [ ] Farms can make a large amount of money which may be used to improve animal conditions. 
- [ ] A large number of animals are humanely killed to provide meat for the population.  

5. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed.  For each answer option, decide if it is true or false.  Mark each statement you believe to be true, and leave unmarked each answer you believe to be false. As the human population grows, so does the number of domesticated animals that we keep. This also means there are more strays living on the streets; worldwide there are an estimated 500 million stray or free-roaming dogs. Which of the following are animal welfare problems associated with strays?

- [ ] Culling the high numbers of stray animals is time consuming and expensive.
- [ ] High numbers of stray animals may be having an effect on tourism. 
- [x] Stray animals are often suffering from a number of untreated health issues.

Yes, this is a potential animal welfare problem associated with strays. 
- [x] The breeding of stray animals is often not controlled which has led to humans using inhumane and ineffective methods of getting rid of their growing population. 

Yes, this is a potential animal welfare problem associated with strays. 
- [x] Stray animals are in danger of being hurt by vehicles, other animals or humans. 

Yes, this is a potential animal welfare problem associated with strays. 

6. Which of the following is a famous quote about animals from the British philosopher Jeremy Bentham?

- [ ] “I think I could turn and live with animals, they are so placid and self-contain’d, I stand and look at them long and long.”
- [x] “The question is not, ‘Can they reason?’ nor ‘Can they talk’, but ‘Can they suffer?’”
- [ ] “We need another and a wiser and perhaps a more mystical concept of animals.” 

Correct

7. If you have a companion animal, such as a dog, cat or horse, which of the following are you responsible for?

- [x] The animal's physical health

Correct, you have a responsibility to make sure the animal is healthy.
- [x] The animal's mental health.

Correct, you have a responsibility to make sure the animal isn't suffering from distress.
- [x] The animal's feeding and nutrition.

Correct, you have a responsibility to make sure the animal has appropriate nutrition. 

8. True or False: Animal welfare has no real impact on human wellbeing

- [ ] True
- [x] False

Animal welfare is a complex and multifaceted issue with ethical, scientific, economic and political dimensions. 

9. Why do we use animal welfare frameworks, e.g. The Five Freedoms framework or the Duty of Care framework?

- [x] Frameworks give us a common language we can use to discuss and compare animal welfare across different situations.
- [ ] Frameworks are specifically targeted at certain groups of animals, for example the Duty of Care framework is aimed at companion animal welfare.
- [ ] Frameworks encourage positive animal welfare.
- [ ] Frameworks give us ethical guidance to decide what is right for an animal.

Correct

10. Animal welfare legislation is put forward at the global level, and all countries must obey these laws. 

- [ ] True
- [x] False

Correct

11. Which of the following is NOT one of the Five Freedoms?

- [ ] The Freedom to Behave Normally
- [ ] The Freedom from Discomfort
- [ ] The Freedom From Pain, Injury and Disease
- [ ] The Freedom From Fear and Distress
- [x] The Freedom to Play
- [ ]  The Freedom From Hunger and Thirst


12. Which of the following statements most accurately reflects the Duty of Care Concept?

- [ ] It is only the animal’s owner who has a duty of care to that animal.
- [x]  Anyone who is responsible for an animal has a duty of care to that animal.
- [ ] It is only the animal’s caretaker who has a duty of care to that animal. 


13. True or False:  The Five Freedoms can only be used for production animals

- [x] False
- [ ] True

