# Module 4 - The Truth About Dogs and Cats

1. There are numerous domains or aspects of animal welfare. Which statement best describes the most appropriate indicators of welfare?

- [ ] Health is the most important aspect of animal welfare; we can measure health by studying animal behaviour. 
- [ ] Nutrition, environment, health and behaviour are important but the affective mental state of an animal is unmeasurable and unimportant. 
- [ ] The naturalness of an animal’s existence is the most important; if an animal is not in a natural environment it will have poor welfare. 
- [x] Considering a combination of animal nutrition, environment, health, behaviour and mental or affective state is important in getting an overall picture of welfare. 

Correct. Most welfare indicators are linked and it is important to include all factors of animal welfare in order to get a complete picture.

2. True or False. Owning a pet has been linked to health benefits, reduction in stress and development of empathy. 

- [x] True
- [ ] False


3. Which one of the following statements is FALSE?

- [ ] The welfare challenges that an animal faces will be very different depending on the situation of the animal, e.g. whether it is stray, a pet or in a shelter. 
- [ ] It is important to consider both physical and mental aspects of animal welfare when deciding whether an animal is suffering. 
- [x] The welfare needs of an animal are different depending on whether they are a pet, a stray or in a shelter. 


This statement is true; animals do face different challenges depending on whether they are a pet, stray or in a shelter, however the animal's NEEDS (such as behavioural, comfort, etc.) are the same. 

1. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed.  For each answer option, decide if it is true or false.  Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. Which of the statements below describe welfare problems frequently seen in animals kept as pets?

- [x] Boredom and frustration

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [x] Behavioural problems

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [ ] Voluntary socialisation with their own species
- [x] Lack of choice
​ 
​ You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
​ - [x] Lack of exercise and obesity
​ 
​ You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [ ] Access to the outdoors


- [ ] Providing a choice of beds



5. True or False?  90% of animal owners consider their animal's weight before deciding on their feeding regime.

- [ ] True
- [x] False

It is false. A survey has shown that only 17% of dog owners and 5% of cat owners look at their animal’s body condition before deciding how much to feed them.

6. According to the PDSA survey, what percentage of dogs are left alone for 5 hours or more on a regular basis?

- [x] 25%
- [ ] 100%
- [ ] 3%
- [ ] 66%

Approximately 25% of dogs are left alone for 5 hours or more according to the PDSA survey of pet owners.

7. True or False? Cats living indoors have poor welfare while cats given access to the outdoors have good welfare. 

- [ ] True
- [x] False

It is important to consider multiple factors when deciding on an animal’s welfare. For example an indoor cat will be at risk of inadequate exercise and obesity, and an outdoor cat is at risk of car traffic accidents and serious injury. Each case will require investigation. 

8. Signs of behavioural problems in dogs, for example property destruction, are usually signs of what?

- [ ] The dog is settled and content.
- [ ] The dog does not like the colour of your furniture.
- [ ] The dog is born with this behaviour and it cannot be altered. 
- [x] The dog is experiencing stress and altering its behaviour in order to cope.

Behavioural problems usually indicate that the dog is attempting to cope with some kind of stressor, for example separation anxiety.

9. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed.  For each answer option, decide if it is true or false.  Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. Pet cats can suffer from a number of welfare issues, what are three frequent welfare concerns for pet cats?

- [x] Indoor cats are particularly susceptible to boredom and lack of adequate exercise. 

This is frequently a welfare concern for pet cats. 
- [x] Pet cats exhibit normal behaviours such as scratching and spraying indoors, which causes problems for their owner and means they are more likely to be rehomed. 

This is frequently a welfare concern for pet cats. 
- [ ] Pet cats are often fed ad libitum which means they are likely to experience obesity. 
- [ ] Pet cats are given very comfortable places to sleep. 
- [ ] Outdoor cats are forced to use their skills in hunting and stalking prey. 

10. True or False. Pet cats are always more comfortable living in a large group of cats. 

- [ ] True
- [x] False

It is false. Cats are selectively social, which means they choose who they want to socialise with, and often cats prefer to be solitary. Sometimes there are problems, for example aggression and fighting, seen in multi-cat households. 

11. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed.  For each answer option, decide if it is true or false.  Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. Stray animals are at risk of very poor welfare. From the list below, identify the problems often associated with stray dogs living on the street. 

- [ ] Freedom of natural behaviour
- [x] Lack of veterinary treatment

This is a welfare problem for stray dogs
- [x] Illness, injuries and disease 

This is a welfare problem for stray dogs
- [x] Conflict with humans and inhumane culling methods

This is a welfare problem for stray dogs
- [ ] The ability to make choices
- [x] Hunger and thirst

This is a welfare problem for stray dogs
- [ ] Voluntary socialisation with their own species
- [x] Fighting over resources

This is a welfare problem for stray dogs

12. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed.  For each answer option, decide if it is true or false.  Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. Identify the problems associated with stray cats living on the streets. 

- [x] High levels of disease as unvaccinated cats live in close proximately to one another.

This is a welfare problem for stray cats
- [x] Injury occurring as a result of fighting or by attacks from humans. 

This is a welfare problem for stray cats
- [x] Inadequate nutrition and food.

This is a welfare problem for stray cats
- [x] High mortality, particularly in kittens, due to exposure to the elements and lack of shelter.

This is a welfare problem for stray cats
- [ ] Freedom to make choices.
- [ ] Expression of all natural behaviours.
- [ ] Insufficient interaction with humans. 

13. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed.  For each answer option, decide if it is true or false.  Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. No-kill shelters do not euthanise healthy animals under any circumstances.  Which of these statements are true with regard to no-kill shelters?

- [x] No-kill shelters have a limited capacity and must turn animals away, while shelters that euthanise animals can take in all animals and euthanise those that are unlikely to be rehomed. 

True
- [ ] No-kill shelters will always have more space and more equipment to ensure animals experience none of the welfare concerns associated with stray or pet animals. 
- [ ] No-kill shelters have more staff than shelters that operate a euthanasia policy.

14. Although well-meaning, there are often significant welfare challenges for animals housed in shelters. Which of the following statements best describes some of the most important welfare problems that animals face from being housed in these conditions?

- [ ] Animals prefer to be housed individually and do not suffer from solitary confinement. 
- [ ] Animals are free to make choices in their movement and diet, will socialise with their own species and exhibit all natural behaviours.
- [x] Animals often suffer from improper housing, inadequate feeding regimes, poor health and the development of behavioural problems. 
- [ ] Animals will suffer from a lack of kindness from the shelter staff who have opened shelters in order to make money. 

Correct.
