# Module 5 - Down on the Farm

1. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed. For each answer option, decide if it is true or false. Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. In a commercial dairy system what are the essential requirements of cow housing?

- [ ] Access to fields for grazing
- [ ] Feeders and drinkers that can measure intake
- [x] Comfortable, dry bedded cubicles

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [ ] Sand bedding in cubicles
- [x] Easy access to clean fresh water

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [ ] Individual head spaces at the feed face


Although research has shown that there are fewer aggressive interactions when there are individual head spaces for each cow the most important factor is that there is enough space at the feed face for each cow to feed at the same time.
- [ ] Enough space at the feed face so that all cows can feed at the same time

2. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed. For each answer option, decide if it is true or false. Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. What do UK dairy farmers consider to be the 3 biggest challenges to dairy cow welfare?

- [x] Lameness

In this question, your response to each answer statement contributes to the possible score of 2.  You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [ ] Removing the calf from the cow during the first 12 hours following birth
- [ ] Uncomfortable cubicles
- [x] Mastitis

In this question, your response to each answer statement contributes to the possible score of 2.  You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [ ] Mixing cows into new groups
- [x] Infertility

In this question, your response to each answer statement contributes to the possible score of 2.  You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.

3. In commercial dairy systems the calf is removed from the cow soon after birth. In terms of minimising stress in both cow and calf when is the best time to do this?

- [x] 6 hours following birth
- [ ] 4 days following birth
- [ ] 24 hours following birth


Although calf health is maximised by remaining with its mother for a longer period, behavioural and physiological research has shown that stress at separation is higher in both cow and calf (when separated at this later period) than when separated soon after birth. 

4. Consider this statement. Is it true or false? Within the EU sow gestation stalls have been banned for the majority of pregnancy. 

- [ ] False
- [x] True


5. Which instinctive behaviour that appears in late pregnancy is a sow less able to perform in a farrowing crate?

- [x] Nest building
- [ ] Locomotion
- [ ] Social interaction
- [ ] Feeding


6. What breeding goal may help to minimise the number of piglets dying before weaning?

- [ ] Breeding for the number of piglets alive at birth
- [x] Breeding for the number of piglets alive at weaning
- [ ] Breeding for smaller piglets


7. At what age would piglets be fully weaned from the sow under natural conditions?

- [ ] 7-11 weeks old
- [ ] 22-27 weeks old
- [x] 12-17 weeks old
- [ ] 3-5 weeks old


8. Read the following, and then consider the answer statements listed. For each answer option, decide if it is true or false. Mark all of the true statements and leave the false statements unmarked. According to EU legislation what do furnished cages for laying hens have to provide?

- [ ] air conditioning


- [x] a feed trough

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [ ] an egg belt


- [ ] a dust bath

- [x] 750 sq cm of floor space per hen

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [x] perches

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [x] a nest box

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [x] a nipple drinker

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.
- [x] a peck and scratch mat

You will see a green tick against every true statement that you correctly marked, and every false statement that you correctly left unmarked.  A red cross is shown if you incorrectly marked a false statement, or left a true statement unmarked.

9. Consider this statement. Is it true or false? Feather pecking never occurs within free-range farming systems.

- [x] False
- [ ] True


10. In broiler breeders (the parents of broiler chickens) which of the 5 Freedoms is most likely to be compromised?

- [ ] Freedom from hunger and thirst
- [x] Freedom to behave normally
- [ ] Freedom from fear and distress
- [ ] Freedom from pain, injury and disease
- [ ] Freedom from discomfort



11. Which one of the following was not discussed as a method to enrich the environment of a commercial broiler chicken shed?

- [ ] whole grains scattered in the wood shavings litter
- [x] footballs
- [ ] perches
- [ ] vegetables
- [ ] natural daylight from windows
- [ ] hay or straw bales to sit on or peck at

Footballs are not generally used a source of enrichment for broiler chickens. Small spherical objects (such as tennis balls) in the feed trough  have been tested as a potential source of enrichment for laying hens however the results were equivocal and larger balls sometimes containing food have been used to enrich the environment of both pigs and horses. 

12. From the animal's point of view what the most stressful part of the transport process?

- [ ] standing stationary in a traffic jam
- [x] loading and unloading
- [ ] driving on a motorway
- [ ] driving on twisty country roads

The interaction with human handlers (often unfamiliar to the animals) movement and noise associated with the loading and unloading process have been found to be the most stressful element of the transport process. 
