# Course overview + the shell

1. For this course, you need to be using a Unix shell like Bash or ZSH. If you are on Linux or macOS, you don’t have to do anything special. If you are on Windows, you need to make sure you are not running cmd.exe or PowerShell; you can use Windows Subsystem for Linux or a Linux virtual machine to use Unix-style command-line tools. To make sure you’re running an appropriate shell, you can try the command `echo $SHELL`. If it says something like `/bin/bash` or `/usr/bin/zsh`, that means you’re running the right program.

2. Create a new directory called `missing` under `/tmp`.

    - `cd /temp`
    - `mkdir missing`

3. Look up the `touch` program. The man program is your friend.

    `man touch`

4. Use touch to create a new file called `semester` in missing.

   - `cd missing`
   - `touch semester` 

5. Write the following into that file, one line at a time:
    
    - `#!/bin/sh`
    - `curl --head --silent https://missing.csail.mit.edu`


    - `echo '#!/bin/sh' > semester`
    - `echo 'curl --head --silent https://missing.csail.mit.edu' >> semester`

6. The first line might be tricky to get working. It’s helpful to know that # starts a comment in Bash, and ! has a special meaning even within double-quoted (") strings. Bash treats single-quoted strings (') differently: they will do the trick in this case. See the Bash quoting manual page for more information.

7. Try to execute the file, i.e. type the path to the script (`./semester`) into your shell and press enter. Understand why it doesn’t work by consulting the output of ls (hint: look at the permission bits of the file).

    `-bash: ./semester: Permission denied`

8. Run the command by explicitly starting the sh interpreter, and giving it the file semester as the first argument, i.e. sh semester. Why does this work, while `./semester` didn’t?

    When running the command with sh semester, it works because it's explicitly invoking the sh shell to interpret and execute the script. However, running ./semester may not work without some additional steps because the shell tries to execute the file as a program which needs execute permissions.

9. Look up the `chmod` program (e.g. use `man chmod`).

10. Use `chmod` to make it possible to run the command `./semester` rather than having to type sh semester. How does your shell know that the file is supposed to be interpreted using sh? See this page on the shebang line for more information.

    `chmod +x semester`

11. Use `|` and `>` to write the “last modified” date output by semester into a file called `last-modified.txt` in your home directory.

    `./semester | grep "Last-Modified" > ~/last-modified.txt`

12. Write a command that reads out your laptop battery’s power level or your desktop machine’s CPU temperature from `/sys`. Note: if you’re a macOS user, your OS doesn’t have sysfs, so you can skip this exercise.

    `cat /sys/class/power_supply/battery/capacity`
