# Final

1. The key to a successful scientific investigation is:




2. According to the fossil record:



3. Mark all the correct statements below:




4. If you could isolate a plant that had no phytochrome, which of the following statements would best describe such a plant?




5. In Darwin's experiment on phototropism, what would have happened had he placed a dark tube around the middle part of the seedling, and then illuminated the plant  from the side?



6. Which of the following are found in both animal and plant cells?



7. Ethylene:



8. Martin Heil's experiments with lima beans showed that: 



9. Arabidopsis contains a gene for hereditary deafness because - 



10. Which of these would stimulate flowering in a long-day plant with a critical night length of 11 hours, 55 minutes?



11. In what way do the membranes of a plant cell vary?



12. Charles and Francis Darwin discovered that:



13. A plant mutant that shows normal gravitropic bending but does not store starch in its plastids would require a reevaluation of the role of ____________ in gravitropism.



14. Which of the following would not be seen in a cross-section through the zone of cell maturation of the root?



15. Which of the following statements regarding Mimosa is correct?



16. Which of the following can result in an increase in internal cellular pressure?



17. Negative gravitropism is manifested in: (only 1 correct answer)



18. The area of the root where cells divide is called the - 



19. What is the most exact conclusion of Jaffe's experiments with plant tendrils?



20. Which of the following statements regarding FLC are correct? 




21. According to Tulving's model, plants likely exhibit - 



22. Which of the following statements regarding circumnutation are correct? 




23. The test of a hypothesis is - 



24. Plants can detect - (Check all correct answers)



25. Cuscuta (dooder) is attracted to tomato because - 


